22.
Nope, I don't know why I said that.
Got an autopilot there.
It's definitely Genesis 44.
Phew, dodge the bullet.
Here, the word of the Lord.
I love how you guys are like, yeah, yeah, we're listening to Luke.
It's like you just, come on, guys.
You got to hold me accountable here.
Genesis 44 says this.
Then he commanded the steward of his house, fill the men's sacks with food as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack, and put my cup, the silver cup in the mouth of the sack of the youngest with his money for the grain.
And he did as Joseph told him.
As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away with their donkeys.
They had gone only a short distance from the city.
Now Joseph said to his steward, up, follow after the men.
And when you overtake them, say to them, why have you repaid evil for good?
Is it not from this that my Lord drinks, and by this that he practices divination?
You have done evil in doing this.
When he overtook them, he spoke to them these words.
They said to him, why does my Lord speak such words as these?
Far be it.
from your servants to do such a thing.
For hold the money that we found in the mouths of our sacks, we brought back to you from the land of Canaan.
How then could we steal silver or gold from your Lord's house?
Whichever your servants is found with it shall die, and we also will be my Lord's servants.
He said, let it be as you say, he who is found with it shall be my servant, and the rest of you shall be innocent."
Then each man quickly lowered his sack to the ground,
And each man opened his sack, and he searched beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest.
And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.
Then they tore their clothes, and every man loaded his donkey, and they returned to the city.
When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there.
They fell before him to the ground.
Joseph said to them, what deed is this that you have done?
And do you not know that a man like me can indeed practice divination?
And Judah said,
What shall we say to my Lord?
What shall we speak?
Or how can we clear ourselves?
God has found out the guilt of your servants.
Behold, we are my Lord's servants, both we and he also and in whose hand the cup has been found.
But he said, far be it for me that I should do so.
Only the man in whose hand the cup was found should be my servant, but as for you, go up in peace to your father.
Then Judah went up to him and said,
Oh, my Lord, please let your servant speak a word in my Lord's ears.
And let not your anger burn against your servant.
For you are like Pharaoh himself.
My Lord asked his servant saying, have you a father or a brother?
And we said to my Lord, we have a father and old man and a young brother, the child of his old age, his brother is dead and he alone is left of his mother's children and his father loves him.
Then you said to your servants, bring him down to me that I may set my eyes on him.
And we said to my Lord, the boy cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die.
Then you said to your servants, unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall not see my face again.
When we went back to your servant, my father, we told him the words of my Lord.
And when our father said, go again, buy us a little food, we said we cannot go down.
If our youngest brother goes with us, then we will go down.
for we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us.
Then your servant, my father said to us, you know that my wife bore me to sons.
One left me and I said, surely he has been torn to pieces.
And I've never seen him since.
If you take this one also from me and harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs even to Sheol.
Now therefore, as soon as I come to your servant, my father and the boy is not with us,
Then as his life is bound up in the boy's life, as soon as he sees that boy is not with us, he will die.
And your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant of our father with sorrow to shield.
For your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father, saying, if I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life.
Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my Lord,
and let the boy go back with his brothers.
For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me?
I fear to see the evil that would find my father.
Grass withers and the flowers fade, but the word of our God will stand forever.
Amen, pray with me.
Merciful God in heaven, we would be thanks for your word.
I pray that your word would speak to us
that it would draw us out, that it would search us out.
Your spirit would show kindness to us this morning, we pray.
It's in your name that we pray.
In the name of Christ, amen.
You know, when I was in the fifth grade, the summer after the fifth grade, I woke up in the middle of the night with these night sweats.
And these night sweats weren't because of a nightmare, or they were because
I remembered something I had done and I was overcome with guilt.
I don't know if you've ever felt that before, when you are overcome by the weight of something.
I lied to my mother about this.
I lied to the teachers at the school about something that I had done and I had held on to it and I thought it was over and then out of nowhere in the middle of the night, the weight of guilt, of knowing what I had done just came upon me and it broke me.
And I remember walking downstairs in the middle of the night knocking on my parents' bedroom.
My mom got up and I told her what I had done.
There's this overwhelming moment.
What I had done is I had stolen books.
It was probably the first time I was about to become a pastor.
The thing I was going to steal were books.
It's not normal.
Yeah.
But in that moment, the weight of guilt overcame me.
I don't know if you felt that kind of guilt before.
Guilt is a haunting thing.
There's this kind of thing where you do something wrong, maybe no one knows about it, maybe you lied about it, maybe you just didn't tell people about it.
And you think you get away with it.
You're like, oh no one knows about this.
It's just in my head, it's just me.
And then time goes on and you keep on pushing it down.
But then little things will happen, little things are said, little things are seen and comes back to memory.
Our guilt has a way of haunting us.
And it does it because you know you're guilty.
You know you did the thing, but you hide it still.
And you know that the only way to get rid of guilt is actually bringing out in the open, but still you hide it.
You'd rather face the feeling of guilt than bringing out into the open.
Why?
Why would we rather have that ugly feeling of guilt weighing us down instead of bringing out into the open where it can be dealt with?
Well, at the end of the day, it's because we're afraid.
We're afraid of the cost of someone knowing what I've done.
We're afraid of the cost of relationships.
Ultimately, what we're afraid of is judgment.
How will judgment follow me if someone knows the things that I have done?
And what will my reputation, what will people think of me, what will the judgment be?
So in the face of that potential judgment, we're like, yeah, it's probably safer to hide this and to risk this.
So I'll just deal with this guilt.
And what Genesis 44 does for us is it brings us into this nature of guilt and shows you how you can actually
be free of it, asking a bigger question than what can I do about my guilt.
It's asking the question, what does God do with our guilt?
How does he respond?
How does he see our guilt?
And in this final test of Joseph, this is the second time Joseph has a series of tests for his brothers trying to draw them out to bring healing to the family, which is the final test, which leads to the climatic moment in Genesis 45, leads us to ask the question, what does God do?
with our guilt.
This guilt that's been buried in this family, these secrets that have been pushed down, all come to light, all deeds done in the dark will be exposed.
And this happens here.
The question is, how does God respond?
And there's three things I want to point out of ways that God responds to guilt.
The first is that God exposes our guilt.
Our God is actually agent behind pulling strings to make sure your guilt comes out into the open.
God judges our guilt.
Here's the judge of the guilty.
And finally, the God provides a substitute for our guilt.
God provides a substitute for our guilt.
So first, we discover here that God exposes our guilt.
But God's actually the one that's exposing this.
And this is, again, this moment is 22 years after the brothers had sold Joseph into slavery the first time.
God has been orchestrating everything towards this moment to bring this hidden sin out into the light.
And we see this here.
Verse one to two begins like this.
Then he commanded the steward of his house, fill them in sacks with food as much as they can carry and put each man's money in the mouth of the sack and put my cup, the silver cup, and the mouth of the sack of the youngest with his money for the grain.
And he did as Joseph told him.
It's very similar to the first test that he gave to his brothers where they put extra money in this axe to see what they would do with that.
But there's a twist here.
It's not just money in this axe, it's a silver cup.
His silver cup, this silver cup of divination.
We can't get into the weeds of that.
There's likely some Egyptian traditions around that.
But we also know that Joseph is someone who sees dreams, who can tell the future.
And so it's this truth telling his ability to see and through this
He's gonna see them out tell the truth about what's happening in the family It's at the end of the day this cup will expose them and one of the ways it does it connects them to the old story I mean it connects to Joseph Joseph who also was sold for silver Now again this silver is gonna cause an innocent one to suffer for silver his brother Benjamin who did no wrong Remember these these tests are both testing to see how they changed and
And also he's using these tests is actually a very means to draw them out, to help them change, to bring that which is hidden into the light.
And this connection to the story does that.
And we see this again here, you know, when they search the sacks and they get, and they find it in Benjamin's sack, and they say this, and he searched, began with the eldest, ending with the youngest.
The cup was found in Benjamin's sack and verse 13, then they tore their clothes and every man loaded his donkey and then returned to the city.
So here again, another connection to the first selling story.
The brothers tear their clothes.
The first time when Joseph was sold, whose clothes were torn?
It was Joseph.
His cloak was torn.
And then when Jacob finds out, he tears his clothes.
Because tearing clothes is a sign of mourning.
It's saying, let my outside resemble what's happening on the inside.
As my heart is broken, let my clothes be broken.
This is the whole idea of like sackcloth and ash is like,
Let my outside appearance match my inward state."
That's what they're doing, but now it's the brothers that are experiencing loss.
All this connecting to the first story, bringing this back up into their minds.
And then they return to Joseph's house and that the test kind of turns up a notch here in verse 15 when Joseph confronts them and he says, what deed is it that you have done?
Do you not know that a man like me can indeed practice divination?
He's saying, what did you, did you think you were gonna get away from this, away with this?
Again, he's testing, he's seeing, I mean, he knows that they didn't steal it.
But he's testing them, he's pushing to see what comes out.
To see what kind of men that these, they have become.
So they can have true reconciliation.
And listen to what Judah says here.
It says this in verse 16.
And Judah said,
What should we say to my Lord?
What should we speak or how can we clear ourselves?
God has found out the guilt of your servants.
He's at the end of himself.
He's not trying to cover up.
He's not trying to make excuses.
He's like, well, I have nothing to say.
He's saying I have no defense for what has happened.
I'm guilty.
You know what's interesting is they're not guilty of this, but in his mind he's thinking about the guilt that's been haunting him his whole life.
The guilt is something far worse than stealing a piece of silver.
This is selling of the brother.
A sin that they've ran from, a sin that they've hidden from.
It's all finally being brought out into the open.
You see this as you see this second speech of
of Judah come forward.
He kind of spills a bit of the family story about his father's love for Rachel's children.
He's letting the family know.
He's letting Joseph know, like this is the family story.
It all is coming out in this moment.
It's all being brought out into the light.
And the reality is your guilt, the guilt that you have in life, whether hidden or not, can never experience healing
until it is brought out into the light.
There's this beautiful truth here.
You actually don't have to live with the pit of guilt in your stomach.
But in order to deal with that guilt, you have to face your fears of exposure.
The very reason that God exposes the guilt that you have in life is not to cause you pain, but he exposes that guilt to heal you.
Because God's kingdom is light.
And his light is shining into every corner of the earth and it is growing and shining everywhere.
And it searches out the darkness.
It will find you out.
This is something you can't run and you can't hide from eventually, even if it takes 22 years or more, it will find you out.
You know, I think the reason why we still hide is we tend to tell ourselves lies that we believe.
We tell ourselves that listening, hiding our guilt is probably better than letting people know because I'm protecting people.
Like if this person knew this thing I did, it would cause strife in relationship.
It would cause chaos.
And so listen, the better thing to do is probably just to hide it, to not let anybody know of this guilt that I have, because it's going to be too much for them.
So because I love them so much, I'm going to hide the truth from them and I'm going to lie about it.
But we know that that's not love.
That's self-preservation.
It's fear.
Ultimately, it's fear of the question is, how will I be judged when I am found out?
Sure, God exposes guilt to heal, but if I'm guilty, how does judgment actually heal me?
When the purpose of judgment is to actually wound, when someone's judged guilty, there's a punishment.
There's an appropriate punishment for the guilty.
So how is this bringing me to healing to bring this out into the open?
And this is what leads us to the second thing here is that the very reason he actually exposes our guilt at first blush actually confirms our fears and why we hide.
They exposes our guilt to bring healing, which comes through judgment.
The very reason why God exposes our guilt is actually so that it can be judged.
There's a second thing we see here is that God judges our guilt.
Again, when you look at Judah's confession here in verse 16,
God has found out the guilt of your servants.
Another interesting thing there.
He doesn't say servant, which would be in his mind, the only one that's done wrong is Benjamin.
He's talking about servants like these brothers.
Again, clearly in his mind, he's thinking about his true guilt that's weighing on him.
God has found him out.
He's no longer defensive and he's saying that this is what God is doing.
God is finding me out.
Ultimately, this is God's work to find us out.
to bring out the guilt God's doing is to expose guilt so that he can judge the guilty.
Which at first glance in this passage might seem a little unfair because he didn't actually steal the cup.
Right, Benjamin didn't steal the cup.
But it is exposing and connecting them to their real crime, which is arguably worse.
Some of your brothers arguably worse, which happened 22 years ago when they sold their brother.
into slavery, the gig is up, but God has not forgotten what they have done.
And in reality, Judah and his brothers haven't forgotten either.
I mean, we always think maybe we can forget the wrong that we've done, maybe the guilt will just go away and it'll just disappear from our minds, but it never does, not fully.
Even if we grow really, really numb to those things, they're always there.
Like this white noise in the background of your life.
And Judah and his brothers hadn't forgotten it.
I don't know if this is true, but I imagine that there were times where Judah and his brothers, they're sitting there with their dad, maybe it's on the anniversary of when they sold their brother, maybe they're looking at their dad, looking off into the horizon, maybe imagining his son finally returning home.
Imagine there are some times where they thought, maybe I should tell my dad.
Maybe we should say what we have done and they've swallowed it every time.
But God remember,
And in his time, God is coming and bringing judgment to them.
For some of you, you've actually experienced this kind of judgment.
When the guilt that you've hidden finally came out into the light and there was judgment for it.
For others of you, you've lived a life hiding and judgment is coming.
Because for us to experience the removal of guilt, judgment must fall.
When we think about God as a judge, these are images that we don't love.
It's not usually the first thing you say.
There's now, I guess there are signs that say God's judging you, but most of the signs that you see around corners are like God loves you, right?
That's kinda like God loves you, which is yes and man, those are good things.
But God is also a judging God too.
We love the love and grace and mercy of God, but judgment less so.
If we could, we would take grace and mercy without judgment.
But when you look at the judgment and wrath of God and the Bible and then you consider like this mercy and grace, they can seem like opposite, antithetical.
And then it can confirm, depending on where you come from and your experience is life, it can kind of confirm some ideas, imaginations that you have of God that he's this mean God that's just eager to condemn, eager to put you down.
For many, this is what you imagine God to be, this angry, judging God.
For others, we respond opposite of that, and we just imagine it to be this peace and love in God.
And so here we find both brought together, but first it's the judgment.
And his judgment is good.
I mean, do you really want to follow a God who sees evil in this world and just ignores it and excuses it?
Of course not.
At the bare minimum, you want a God who's going to be at least as mad at the injustices in this world as you are, right?
And if he's really a Just God, he's going to be more angry at these things, because there are no front to him.
And if we are indeed guilty of sin against him, of crime, of treason against God, doesn't he have a right towards judgment towards it?
I mean, wouldn't it be weird for him not to bring judgment towards sin?
Further, would you really want him to ignore the guilt of others like you want him to ignore the guilt of you?
I think at the end of the day, we know that this is true, that God has to come and he has to judge the wrong and the wicked and this is what we want him to do.
We know we can't hide from this, but sometimes we think, man, maybe if I just don't think about it, he won't think about it.
And then when he delays judgment and brings stuff out in our lives, that delay can make us think that, oh, maybe he forgot about it too.
But God is patient.
He is slow.
Like in 22 years, his brothers have not been struck down.
God is patient.
But God's patience in our lives is not indifference.
His patience is not him ignoring
You cannot escape judgment.
He waits.
He draws us out so that our guilt can be rightly judged.
I think this is what Judah understands here.
He doesn't minimize it.
He says, well, so what can I say?
I don't have a defense.
I'm guilty, which begs the question, what does it mean for us to face judgment when we are guilty?
What does that look like for us?
We say that exposure and judgment are good, but how are they good when we're guilty?
How can we endure the punishment of our guilt?
to be free from the weight of guilt.
How does this happen?
At the end of the day, you can't on your own.
Romans tells us that the wages of sin is death, which is the judgment that you have for your sin is death.
The judgment for your guilt is death.
It's not very encouraging.
It sure seems like if that's the outcome of judgment, then maybe we want to stay hiding then.
What do we do with this?
But this is exactly why hiding is so destructive.
Because when we hide, we aren't just avoiding judgment.
We're actually playing judge.
We think it's not big enough deal to bring this out into the open.
We're just going to carry ourselves.
But the reality is you can't, and in fact, you have actually already been judged.
The only way you can be free from your guilt is by letting the judgment come.
Judgment will fall and it must fall.
The question, the turn here, is the question is where is that judgment going to fall?
I mean, this is the profound beauty of this chapter.
In the beauty of the gospel, the God exposes our sin so he can judge it and lead us into healing.
And that healing comes as the judgment falls not on you, not on me, but on God himself.
You see, his mercy and grace do not come apart from judgment.
But the mercy and grace of God come actually through judgment.
Let's see these are the final thing we see here about how God deals with our guilt.
That God provides his substitute.
for our guilt.
Due to second speech, leads to this moment.
It's openness, honest, and it leads to this.
It's kind of all summarizing what's happened to lead to this moment in verse 32 and 33.
It says, for your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father, saying, if I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life.
Now, therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my Lord.
and let the boy go back with his brothers.
We saw in the last chapter, Judah, telling his dad, listen, I will be a pledge for my brother.
And now in the face of danger, in the face of his life being sold into service for the rest of his life, what is he who stands in that place and he says, I will be a substitute.
He says, let me bear the punishment for what Benjamin has done.
This is a crucial piece here.
Judah is not asking for judgment to be erased.
He's not saying, hey, can we just forget about this?
Move on.
It's not that big of a deal, bro.
You got lots of silver cups, probably.
He's not asking for judgment to be erased.
He's asking for it to be redirected.
See, guilt does not actually disappear here.
It's transferred from one party to the other.
From Benjamin, his guilt has been asked to be given to Judah.
And I think this is one of the
One of the profound aspects of judgment that falls here.
And this is one of the things I think that we struggle with with the cross.
Sometimes we wonder, did you just really have to die?
Couldn't have God just forgiven us?
This whole son of God dying thing is a little excessive.
I actually have some books on my bookshelf.
They're not like ones I'd recommend.
Talk about the death of Christ, like it's divine child abuse.
Like it's such a mean and dark and weird thing for him to do.
Some people struggle with the cross because of this, but in this moment here, it helps us see the truth.
And what's at stake?
That sin cannot go unjudged.
The guilty cannot go unjudged.
I mean, we don't want the evil in this world to go unjudged.
Someone has to pay for that guilt.
Let me give you a scenario.
Imagine someone steals $500 from me.
And they come and you find out and they're like, hey, you know, I'm really sorry, I just needed money.
Will you forgive me?
And they say, and you say to them, yeah, I forgive you.
You could have just asked me.
But since you need that money, I'll forgive you, and I'll let you keep that $500.
Very generous of that person, right?
You're still generous for letting someone who's still $500 keep that money.
Good job.
But that forgiveness doesn't erase the cost.
Forgiveness always costs something.
Just who does it cost?
It costs the person who forgave the $500.
They're still out $500.
The wages of sin is death.
The guilty, it always leads to death, the sin cost death.
And the wonder of the gospel is this, that God became flesh, right?
Judah's descendant is Christ himself who came as a pledge for you to say, listen, you are guilty, put your guilt on me.
He will take your guilt on himself.
He will die the death that is owed to you.
He takes on himself.
And not only do we give Him our sin, He gives us His perfection and righteousness to you.
That sin you are hiding from right now, for fear of judgment, He's already been dealt with.
The sting of death has been removed by Christ.
Does He conquer sin, rising to new life?
The sting of death has been removed.
The sting of your judgment for your sin is no more.
It's gone.
You know what this means?
There's nothing left to fear in your confession of sin.
There's nothing left to hide.
And this truth is wildly freeing.
And the challenge for us is to step out in faith to trust it.
to trust that Christ has paid for our guilt, that it has fallen on Him.
And the challenge for us as a community is to believe that and live that out when someone confesses their sin, that our first reply is, there's now no condemnation for you.
It's not, whoa, you did what?
That might come at some point, or at least in your head you might think that, but how words we say to each other are, there's no condemnation for you.
It creates a wildly humble community that says, listen, I'm not better than anybody.
I'm just as guilty as you.
Jesus had to die for me just as much as he had to die for you.
There's no like balancing scale there.
This is a profound truth.
The Christ took the judgment that was owed to us on himself.
You have nothing left to prove.
If you have faith in Christ, you are forgiven.
You are free.
And if you don't have faith in Christ, it's as simple as saying Christ, I've have faith in you.
I believe in you.
And he will.
He will become a pledge for you.
He will give you his righteousness.
He will make you perfect here and now.
And as he does this to us, he grows us into humble people that share this grace with each other.
As we share this mercy and grace with each other, we share it with the world.
May we grow into be this kind of people who trust the freedom that we have in Christ.
Trusting our guilt.
to Him.
Pray with me.
Merciful God in heaven, we give you thanks for your goodness.
We give you thanks for the beauty of the gospel that you have taken all our guilt.
All the heinous things that we've done and will do you've taken unto yourself, that we might have life in you.
I pray that you would help us to trust this truth, that we live in light of this truth,
So it would be a joyously repenting people that trust your grace is enough.
I pray this in your holy name.
Amen.